# PNIP-0
`draft` `mandatory`

## Core aspects of the protocol
Psbt Network is an open protocol for Bitcoin.

This protocol enables communication between multiple parties collaborating to create, sign, valiate, finalize, and broadcast a transaction.

This PNIP defines the core aspects of the protocol. New PNIPs describe standardized modules or protocol improvements.

## Motivation
Psbt Network provides a trustless environment where participants retain control over their funds until the transaction is broadcasted.

Developers can implement various modules using the protocol, such as swaps, lending, borrowing, staking, and complex financial instruments, with real-time authorization to access funds.

It reduces on-chain transactions without sharing private keys or taproot scripts, lowering costs, preventing overengineering, and reducing network congestion and mempool limits.

By providing a standardized, open protocol, developers are encouraged to create Bitcoin applications without reinventing the wheel for each use case.

## Network
The network is a websocket that validates, adds inputs and outputs, signs, and sends psbt to relays and clients.

The network can support multiple clients and relays.

## Relay
The relay is a node connected to the network that validates, adds inputs and outputs, signs, and sends psbt to the network.

A relay can be connected to multiple networks.

## Client
The client is a node connected to the network that initializes, adds inputs and outputs, validates, signs, and broadcasts psbt.

A client can connect to multiple networks.

## Module
A module contains logic that must be shared across the network, relay, and client.

The network, relay, and client can share multiple modules.

Nodes do not need to trust one another, as modules validate each step.

## Flow  
The client uses a module to initialize the psbt with its inputs and outputs.

The client sends it to the network without any signatures.

The network uses a module to validate and add its inputs and outputs.

The network sends it to the relays without any signatures.

The relay use a module to validate, adds their inputs and outputs, signs their inputs, and sends it back to the network.

The network uses a module to validate, signs its inputs, and sends it back to the client.

The client uses a module to validate the inputs, outputs, and signatures from the network and relay.

The client uses a module to sign the request and broadcast it.